---
layout: post
type: socratic
title: "Socratic Seminar 114 (draft)"
meetup: https://www.meetup.com/bitdevsnyc/events/287350398/
---

## Announcements
Please join us for our next Socratic Seminar. A special thank you to our
sponsors [BNY Mellon](https://www.bnymellon.com/), [CardCoins](https://cardcoins.co), [Chaincode
Labs](https://chaincode.com) and [ZEBEDEE](https://zebedee.io) for food,
refreshments and event space.

## Mailing Lists, Meetings and Bitcoin Optech

### Mailing Lists

#### bitcoin-dev

- [BIP Proposal: Receiving and Change Derivation Paths in a Single Descriptor](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2022-July/020791.html)
- [BIP draft: Half-Aggregation of BIP-340 Signatures](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2022-July/020662.html)
- [Surprisingly, Tail Emission Is Not Inflationary](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2022-July/020665.html)

#### lightning-dev

#### dlc-ml

### Meetings

- Bitcoin PR Review Club
    - [25077 Fix chain tip data race and corrupt rest response (validation)](https://bitcoincore.reviews/25077)
    - [25380 Detect and ignore transactions that were CPFP'd in the fee estimator (mempool)](https://bitcoincore.reviews/25380)
    - [25218 Introduce generic 'Result' class and connect it to CreateTransaction and GetNewDestination (refactoring)](https://bitcoincore.reviews/25218)
    - [24858 incorrect blk file size calculation during reindex results in recoverable blk file corruption (block storage)](https://bitcoincore.reviews/24858)

- Bitcoin Core general developer meetings
    - [July 7th](https://www.erisian.com.au/bitcoin-core-dev/log-2022-07-07.html#l-390)
    - [July 14th](https://www.erisian.com.au/bitcoin-core-dev/log-2022-07-14.html#l-247)
    - [July 21th](https://www.erisian.com.au/bitcoin-core-dev/log-2022-07-21.html#l-181)
    - [July 28th](https://www.erisian.com.au/bitcoin-core-dev/log-2022-07-28.html#l-276)
- Bitcoin Core wallet meetings
    - [July 1st](https://www.erisian.com.au/bitcoin-core-dev/log-2022-07-01.html#l-332)
    - [July 15th](https://www.erisian.com.au/bitcoin-core-dev/log-2022-07-01.html#l-259)
- dlc-specs meetings
    - [July 12th](https://github.com/discreetlogcontracts/dlcspecs/pull/198)
- Lightning specification meetings
    - [July 4th](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1007)

### Optech

- [Newsletter #207](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2022/07/06/)
- [Newsletter #208](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2022/07/13/)
- [Newsletter #209](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2022/07/20/)
- [Newsletter #210](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2022/07/27/)

## Network Data

- [How much blockspace would it take to spend the complete UTXO set?](https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/q/114043)

### Research

- [Half-Aggregation of BIP 340 Signatures](https://blog.blockstream.com/half-aggregation-of-bip-340-signatures/)
- [A Lightning Nodeâ€™s Problem with Hats](https://sphinx.chat/2022/06/27/a-lightning-nodes-problem-with-hats/)

### InfoSec

## Pull Requests and repo updates

### Bitcoin Core

- [Gloria Zhao becomes maintainer](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/25524)
- [Pieter Wuille drops maintainership](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/25568)
- [Add a -mempoolfullrbf node setting](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/25353)
- [Miniscript support in Output Descriptors](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/24148)
- [Adding a restore wallet option in the GUI](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/gui/pull/471)
- [GUIX reproducible for 7 of 9 target architectures when building cross-architecture](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/21194#issuecomment-1189536659)

### rust-bitcoin

### secp256k1-zkp


### lnd

### eclair

### c-lightning

### rust-lightning

### BOLTs

## New Releases

## Events and Podcasts

## Mining

## Miscellaneous
