---
layout: post
type: socratic
title: "Socratic Seminar 154"
meetup: "https://www.meetup.com/bitdevsnyc/events/312433577/"
---

## Announcements
Our first meetup of the year will be held early in month instead of on the last Thursday. There will be several special guests in town the week of the 8th and we look forward to meeting up with them!

Please join us for our next Socratic Seminar. A special thank you to our sponsors [Chaincode Labs](https://chaincode.com) and [Cake Wallet](https://www.cakewallet.com/) for food, refreshments and event space.

If you can't make it to the main event please join us at [PUBKEY](https://pubkey.bar/home) around 9:30PM.

Follow New York BitDevs on:

- [Twitter](https://x.com/BitDevsNYC)
- [BlueSky](https://bsky.app/profile/bitdevsnyc.bsky.social)
- nostr: `npub1nydevscv0slx9eyr0chkkdgzqfhtp4guk039akhq6g9fnsrf6lcsup3hqs`

## Presentation
- [@sedited](https://github.com/sedited) will present an overview of the [Bitcoin Kernel Library Project](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/27587)

## Mailing Lists, Meetings and Bitcoin Optech
### Mailing Lists
#### [bitcoin-dev](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev)
- [Bitcoin Core v30.1 Released](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/ijlAyY0UFAQ)
- [BIP idea: Timelock-Recovery storage format](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/K1NpJp9_BYk)
- [Re: Funding model question — unpaid exploratory work at intake](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/tVxYD7P0NI4)
- [Addressing remaining points on BIP 54](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/6TTlDwP2OQg)
- [The Cat, BIP draft discussion.](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/Q6ulQb13okg)
- [Hash-Based Signatures for Bitcoin's Post-Quantum Future](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/gOfL5ag_bDU)
- [QRMVL: Modular Verification Layer for Post-Quantum Hash-Based Signatures](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/hCzuSt0zO7w)
- [Major BIP 360 Update](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/3JWQwnMUetg)
- [(BIP Proposal) Add sp() output descriptor format for BIP352](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/bP6ktUyCOJI)
- [Draft BIP: DustSweep – policy-only UTXO dust compaction](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/pqxZuRxuIBc)
- [CTV activation meeting #1 Notes](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/HC2bn4QOR-M)
- [Secondary mailing list for moderated emails](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/audcgKDtnhA)
- [(BIP Proposal) Peer Feature Negotiation](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/DFXtbUdCNZE)
- [Does GCC preclude a soft fork to handle timestamp overflow?](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/L4Eu9bA5iBw)
- [Re: Perhaps the simplest possible quantum-security upgrade](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/rgjCuOVndds)
- [(Discussion) Year 2106 Timestamp Overflow - Proposal for uint64 Migration](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/PHZEIRb04RY)
- [(BIP Proposal) Add PSBT_IN_SP_TWEAK field](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/Kap7NMwzl2k)
- [Splitting more block, addr and tx classes of network traffic](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/3patzNQ8Uxs)
- [Feedback on a simple 2-path vault design (2-of-2 + CLTV recovery) and use of pruned nodes for UTXO retrieval](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/DGB18L9RQvI)
- [Reducing RAM requirements with dynamic dust](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/PMtM_I3qwqg)
- [Q-Lock: Quantum-Resistant Spending via ECDSA + Hash-Based Secrets](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/B1NR150Ioqg)
- [A safe way to remove objectionable content from the blockchain](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/sn3-Uc1yPx4)
- [CTV activation meeting on IRC - Thursday 18 December 17:00 UTC](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/JZR5cUgpfUs)
- [Request for early peer review of two BIP drafts (BUDS and segOP)](https://groups.google.com/g/bitcoindev/c/5K3Lvrn628k)


#### [Delving Bitcoin](https://delvingbitcoin.org/)
- [Bitcoin Core v30.1 Released](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/bitcoin-core-v30-1-released)
- [Ark as a Channel Factory: Compressed Liquidity Management for Improved Payment Feasibility](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/ark-as-a-channel-factory-compressed-liquidity-management-for-improved-payment-feasibility)
- [OP_CC: A simple introspection opcode to enable cheaper consolidations](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/op-cc-a-simple-introspection-opcode-to-enable-cheaper-consolidations)
- [A Proposal for Trustless Custody](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/a-proposal-for-trustless-custody)
- [Major BIP 360 Update](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/major-bip-360-update)
- [A quantum resistance script only using op_ctv/op_txhash and no new signatures](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/a-quantum-resistance-script-only-using-op-ctv-op-txhash-and-no-new-signatures)
- [ZK-Statechains Without States](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/zk-statechains-without-states)
- [BMAX: pricing “sats now vs sats later” via a mining sharechain (no L1 changes, no custodians, no oracles)](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/bmax-pricing-sats-now-vs-sats-later-via-a-mining-sharechain-no-l1-changes-no-custodians-no-oracles)
- [Modifying BIP54 to Support Future nTime Soft Fork](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/modifying-bip54-to-support-future-ntime-soft-fork)
- [Writing version 2 of my Bitcoin Game Theory book with de Gruyter, what should I cover?](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/writing-version-2-of-my-bitcoin-game-theory-book-with-de-gruyter-what-should-i-cover)
- [SHRINCS: 324-byte stateful post-quantum signatures with static backups](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/shrincs-324-byte-stateful-post-quantum-signatures-with-static-backups)
- [BIP The Cat - Draft discussion](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/bip-the-cat-draft-discussion)
- [Bitcoin Lightning Wallets as Abstracted Accounts in EVM Protocols](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/bitcoin-lightning-wallets-as-abstracted-accounts-in-evm-protocols)
- [Proposal: Limit ScriptPubKey length, with one exception](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/proposal-limit-scriptpubkey-length-with-one-exception)
- [Scheduled (Delayed) Transaction Broadcast](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/scheduled-delayed-transaction-broadcast)
- [Disclosure: Critical vulnerabilities fixed in LND 0.19.0](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/disclosure-critical-vulnerabilities-fixed-in-lnd-0-19-0)
- [Building a vault using blinded co-signers](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/building-a-vault-using-blinded-co-signers)
- [Optimistic mining tip (slow block propagation)](https://delvingbitcoin.org/t/optimistic-mining-tip-slow-block-propagation)


### Meetings
- [Bitcoin PR Review Club](https://bitcoincore.reviews)

- Bitcoin Core general developer meetings
    - [December 4](https://www.erisian.com.au/bitcoin-core-dev/log-2025-12-04.html#l-230)
    - [December 11](https://www.erisian.com.au/bitcoin-core-dev/log-2025-12-11.html#l-84)
    - [December 18](https://www.erisian.com.au/bitcoin-core-dev/log-2025-12-18.html#l-190)

- Lightning Specification meeting
    - [Lightning Specification Meeting 2025/12/15](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1300)
    - [Lightning Specification Meeting 2026/01/12](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/issues/1311)

### Optech
- [Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #386](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2026/01/02/)
- [Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #385: 2025 Year-in-Review Special](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2025/12/19/) - [Recap Podcast](https://bitcoinops.org/en/podcast/2025/12/23/)
- [Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #384](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2025/12/12/) - [Recap Podcast](https://bitcoinops.org/en/podcast/2025/12/16/)
- [Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #383](https://bitcoinops.org/en/newsletters/2025/12/05/) - [Recap Podcast](https://bitcoinops.org/en/podcast/2025/12/09/)



## Network Data
-

## CVEs and Research
### Research
-

### InfoSec
-

## Pull Requests and repo updates
### [Bitcoin Core](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin)
- [wallet: warn against accidental unsafe older() import](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33135)
- [kernel: Expose reusable `PrecomputedTransactionData` in script validation](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33891)
- [index: Deduplicate HashKey / HeightKey handling](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/32997)
- [policy: allow minrelay txns in package context if paid for by cpfp](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33892)
- [wallet: Expand MuSig test coverage and follow-ups](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33636)
- [log: show reindex progress in `ImportBlocks`](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33353)
- [kernel: Remove non-kernel module includes](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/34079)
- [Replace cluster linearization algorithm with SFL](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/32545)
- [A few followups after introducing `/rest/blockpart/` endpoint](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/34074)
- [rest: allow reading partial block data from storage](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33657)
- [contrib: asmap-tool.py - Don't write binary to TTY](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/34089)
- [net: Waste less time in socket handling](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/34025)
- [validation: periodically flush dbcache during reindex-chainstate](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/32414)
- [merkle: migrate `path` arg to reference and drop unused args](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33805)
- [precalculate SipHash constant salt XORs](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/30442)
- [(IBD) coins: reduce lookups in dbcache layer propagation](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33602)
- [net: Remove "tor" as a network specification](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/34031)
- [validation: Improve warnings in case of chain corruption](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33553)
- [script: Add a separate ScriptError for empty pubkeys encountered in Tapscript](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33961)
- [init: point out -stopatheight may be imprecise](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33993)
- [wallet: don't consider unconfirmed TRUC coins with ancestors](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33528)
- [Add util::Expected (std::expected)](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/34006)
- [contrib: Count entry differences in asmap-tool diff summary](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33939)
- [net: fix use-after-free with v2->v1 reconnection logic](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33956)
- [chainparams: remove dnsseed.bitcoin.dashjr-list-of-p2p-nodes.us](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33723)
- [contrib: fix manpage generation](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33996)
- [contrib: Remove brittle, confusing and redundant UTF8 encoding from Python IO](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33702)
- [fuzz: gate mempool entry based on weight](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33985)
- [Cluster mempool followups](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33591)
- [cmake: Set `WITH_ZMQ` to `ON` in Windows presets](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/33971)


### [rust-bitcoin](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin)
- [units: Improve and test API surface](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5437)
- [primitives: reject transactions with invalid coinbase scriptSig length ](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5434)
- [Fix decoder bug when ending before decoding prefix](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5455)
- [Remove internals::compact_size module](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5374)
- [Move `TxIdentifier` into `bip152`](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5419)
- [p2p: Use `primitives` in `bip152` tests](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5456)
- [hashes: Add api files](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5442)
- [primitives: prevent null prevout in non-coinbase transactions](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5450)
- [Depend on primitives instead of bitcoin where type definitions overlap](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5342)
- [Kill new mutants in `primitives` and `units`](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5428)
- [bip158: Remove `doc_auto_cfg`](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5433)
- [p2p: Remove `OutPointExt` from `p2p` tests](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5412)
- [script: Fix push_slice() handling of 0x00](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5385)
- [Remove `Witness::from_parts__unstable`](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5139)
- [Use roundtrip instead of rinsed](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5399)
- [Fix script::Builder::push_verify() following a push_int()](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5390)
- [p2p: remove HeaderExt dependency by dropping pow validation](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5389)
- [Move `FilterHash`, `FilterHeader` to `p2p`](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5387)
- [fix: panic messages in from_sat_i32 and from_sat_u32 to use satoshi limits](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/4728)
- [feat: Address::p2a](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5379)
- [p2p: introduce consensus_encoding to the p2p package](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5289)
- [Add Sub/AddAssign impl for NumOpResult of Amount types](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5370)
- [io: Add version number to all dependencies](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5361)
- [Use usize for CompactSizeEncoder::new](https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-bitcoin/pull/5344)


### [libsecp](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1)
- [doc: include arg -DSECP256K1_USE_EXTERNAL_DEFAULT_CALLBACKS=ON for cmake](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1/pull/1790)
- [Add VERIFY_CHECKs and documentation that flags must be 0 or 1 ](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1/pull/1783)
- [test: split monolithic ellswift test into independent cases](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1/pull/1788)
- [refactor: remove ret from secp256k1_ec_pubkey_serialize](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1/pull/1784)
- [Add ARG_CHECKs to ensure "array of pointers" elements are non-NULL](https://github.com/bitcoin-core/secp256k1/pull/1779)


### [Core Lightning](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning)
- [contrib: add Sangbida's signing key](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8754)
- [lightningd: fix segfault when parse_filter fails](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8780)
- [lightningd: add description field to offer related responces](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8782)
- [pay: Enforce maxdelay for direct channel payments](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8740)
- [xpay: payment description](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8784)
- [Fix gossipd node announcement ordering](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8769)
- [lightningd: fix db constraint error when fixing up old blocks.](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8767)
- [lightningd: fix crash on fixup scan if block unavailable.](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8779)
- [Capture Shasums for current version only](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8755)
- [release branch for 25.12 release](https://github.com/ElementsProject/lightning/pull/8752)


### [eclair](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/)
- [Don't scan the blockchain for spent external channels](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3226)
- [Allow remote `dust_limit_satoshis` up to 5000 sats](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3227)
- [Identify failing node by its index](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3224)
- [Unwatch previous funding tx after splice ](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3218)
- [Add API methods to spend funds sent to taproot channel addresses](https://github.com/ACINQ/eclair/pull/3220)


### [LDK](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning)
- [Convert send_channel_ready macro to method](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4279)
- [Remove convert_channel_err! macro](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4275)
- [Reconstruct `ChannelManager` forwarded HTLCs maps from `Channel`s](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4227)
- [Channel logging improvements](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4242)
- [Make `AttributionData` actually pub since its used in the public API](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4268)
- [Consistently use `wire::Message` for encoding](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4244)
- [Avoid force-closing 0-conf channels when funding is reorg'd](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4231)
- [Reduce `Box`ing using `impl Trait` in trait methods post-MSRV-bump](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4175)
- [Assert peer supports splicing before splicing channel](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4262)
- [Bias `Selector` to first poll the sleeper future](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4259)
- [Handle mon update completion actions even with update(s) is blocked](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4236)
- [Expose `process_pending_update_add_htlcs` in tests](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4253)
- [Enforce Trampoline Constraints (replacement)](https://github.com/lightningdevkit/rust-lightning/pull/4226)


### [lnd](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd)
- [lnwire+tlv+route: enforce TLV length validation and add tests](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10249)
- [server: fix timestamp comparison in setSelfNode](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10449)
- [chancloser: stabilize remote RBF coop tests](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10353)
- [localchans: populate FundingScript for missing edges](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10410)
- [funding: fix race in itest for zero-conf funding](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10440)
- [Always add the payment address when probing an invoice](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10439)
- [multi: add `CombinedNonce` functionality to Musig2 Signers](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10436)
- [make: use Docker named volumes for ~21x faster local linting (Mac OS)](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10412)
- [graphdb: fix potential sql tx exhaustion](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10428)
- [Enhance Lsp Heuristic when probing a payment](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10396)
- [graph: fix various races](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10420)
- [tls_manager: Handle partial TLS files](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10399)
- [routing: allow misson control manager to startup despite errors](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd/pull/10383)


### [BIPs](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips)
- [BIP-322: fix proof-of-funds inputs wording](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/2058)
- [BIP-337: fix incorrect reference in Input Data Outpoint row](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/2053)
- [bip3: Address feedback prompted by Motion to Activate](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/2051)
- [bip-325: document signet minimum difficulty](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/2056)
- [BIP93: terminology, typo, and phrasing fixups](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/2052)
- [bip-373: Fix GLOBAL_XPUB key name and clean up compressed vs x-only note](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/2007)
- [BIP53: Clarify implementation complexity and improve tx notation](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/2034)
- [BIP-371: use canonical PSBT_IN_TAP_KEY_SIG in invalid test titles](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/2009)
- [nit: improve `PSBT_IN_MUSIG2_PARTIAL_SIG` wording](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/2028)
- [bip174: add test case for an invalid valuedata due to its size](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/1971)
- [BIP-390: allow musig() under rawtr()](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/2050)
- [bip-0054: update forward compat section with Bitcoin Core v30](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/2044)


### [BOLTs](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc)
- [Clear context column for all assumed bits](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1310)
- [bolt11: Clarify that n is not mandatory](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1305)
- [Remove ambiguous note about use of `localpubkey` in `to_remote`](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/pull/1299)


## New Releases
-

## Events and Podcasts
-

## Mining
- [Bitcoin Hashrate Slumps as Xinjiang Mining Centres Appear to Go Dark](https://www.sandmark.com/news/top-news/bitcoin-hashrate-slumps-xinjiang-mining-centres-appear-go-dark)

## Miscellaneous
- [Jade Security Disclosure](https://blog.blockstream.com/jade-security-disclosure/)
- [Saylor seems to be advocating for a hard fork that forces people to move coin](https://damus.io/note1yu8qh0l4cq9gg9fpk4jclp6q0mepuyacq8ha5ljnx76ang52t9pq2npf36)
